# Browser Uniqueness

This is going to be more of an educational lesson, so sit back, and relax. Browser
uniqueness, more commonly known as fingerprinting, is something very
commonly overcomplicated. Luckily, this lesson will keep the topic easy to
understand, so let’s go ahead and take care of it!

But it won’t be as easy to understand as this message…

Browser uniqueness is exactly what it sounds like, how unique you are on the
internet. The idea here is the more you stick out from normal web traffic, the
easier it is to track you, since you’re the only person with a specific configuration.
It’s like being the only person in class with a 17.3 inch Alienware laptop.
Something you have to realize about the configuration I’ve given you in the
previous three lessons, *(hold guy fawkes mask)* is that it’s not anonymity, or else
you’d be blending in with everybody else, we’ll talk about ways to do this in
section 4. The configuration I’ve given you is created for personal safety and
possible pseudonymisation. Anonymization blends you in with people, essentially
making you anonymous. Whereas pseudonymisation relies on you replacing any
PI^2 with fake identities, or pseudonyms, which aren’t tied to your real
information, we’ll discuss this more in section 6. So even though you’re unique,
you're only using this browser for accounts that are inherently unprivate, like
your personal banking and emails.

You can actually test your browser uniqueness using a service like panopticlick,
amiunique, or browserspy.dk. What you’ll find if you followed the last few lessons
is you are extremely unique. We have made ourselves so private and secure that
we stand out enough for websites to track us and continue to build a profile, just
because we are unique—the irony is real. Does this mean everything we did was
wasted? Well no, there are still lots of benefits from everything we’ve done. Being
able to force HTTPS requests is enormously important, blocking invasive trackers
that track you across websites are also important, and don’t forget the ethical
reasons to stop companies from tracking you nonstop.

On top of this, the hacker Kevin Mitnick brings a different argument to the table:
He says the less unique you are, the less he has to work to target you since you’re
using a more common, less private and secure configuration. So even though a
common fingerprint may benefit your anonymity, from a technical perspective,
this opens you up to malicious activities.

Luckily, even with uniqueness concerns, there are a few things we can do to
improve the problem, but keep in mind there’s no fool-proof way of fixing this. The
first thing is to make sure your scripts are being blocked with something like
NoScript, since scripts reveal so much about your configuration. Run
panopticlick and view the revealing information with your script blocker on
versus off to see why this is so important. The second thing is to install an
extension that periodically spoofs your user agent, making it look like you’re
using a different operating system in a different browser to confuse trackers.
User-Agent Switcher for Firefox has been working amazingly for me. The last
thing you should do is implement pseudonyms so there’s as little information to
tie to you as possible. This is not a pseudonym tutorial, and I’ll be getting into
that later on in the course. Using these three tips I’ve given you will help a lot, and
they are as close as we can get you to full privacy and security without touching
the Tor browser—which we will do in section 4.

That’s going to wrap up our browser quadrilogy for section 3 of the course. I
doubt this was more exciting than the star wars trilogy, but I hope it was still
interesting and valuable nonetheless. I’ll see you all in the next lesson, which will
talk about VPNs and proxies. Thank you for watching, and see you soon!
