# Passwords

Passwords are the *(show key)* key to everything in our lives; they give you access
to bank accounts, emails, devices, everything. You know that saying “money
makes the world go round”? Well, people can’t hold on to their money if they don’t
have passwords to protect it, so passwords kind of make the world go
round--maybe that’s a stretch...

Let’s start off with the basics! When you register for a website, your password is
put through a one-way algorithm called a hash-function That way no one knows
what your password is except you. The issue is when these services or websites
get pwned, or hacked, it’s common to find your username with your password’s
hash publicly available. Once a hacker or anyone else obtains these hashes, they
can use tools like John the Ripper, oclHashcat, and other tools to crack the
hashes and retrieve the actual password. I’ll talk more about those tools shortly.

In 2014, there were several iCloud hacks that leaked the nudes of famous
celebrities. This event was called ‘The Fappening.’ It turns out the hacker (or
hackers) used a tool called Elcomsoft Phone Password Breaker, or EPPB, a tool
used by law enforcement and government agencies to access iCloud accounts,
which by the way is sold publicly for as little as $80. EPPB requires an iCloud
user’s username and password. It just so happened that there was another tool
posted on GitHub called iBrute, a password-hacking tool specifically created for
getting iCloud credentials from just about anyone. Using iBrute and EPPB
together, someone could impersonate the victim and download a backup of that
person’s iPhone onto another device, which is very likely how this hack was
accomplished. This isn’t just an issue for individuals, passwords are how we
protect medical data, any other sensitive data, and even company data--as a
matter of fact, according to Ajit Gaddam at Enigma 2019, a security engineer for
Visa, almost 80% of all data breaches resulted from weak or stolen password.
How do we avoid this?

The first golden rule of passwords is to use good, secure passwords for every
website you visit, making it harder to brute-force. What makes a good password?
Glad you asked…Even highly targeted individuals don’t always know. The previous
CEO of Sony, Michael Lynton, used sonyml3 as his domain account password, no
wonder his emails were hacked and spread across the internet. There are also
the passwords that were exposed in the Ashley Madison hack, the most common
were “123456”, “12345”, “password”, “DEFAULT” “123456789”, and “qwerty”, can we get
much higher? A good password doesn’t use dictionary terms, since brute-forcing
attacks can guess word-based passwords extremely easily. If you are using the
word red, try to replace the e with a 3, this is a very simple tip that can go a long
way with longer passwords. You should be using both lower and uppercase
letters, including symbols, numbers within the password, and making it as
random as you possibly can. The longer the password the better, I’d recommend
having at the very least 12 digits, and working your way up to the dozens if you
can, we’ll cover how to do this easily and realistically, very soon.

The other golden rule is to never use the same password twice. Let’s say Adobe
got hacked and your email and password are posted online. If your email
account uses the same password that you used for Adobe, a person now has
your email address, as well as the password to your account. Giving them access
to your email where they could possibly get access to other accounts. We will be
discussing more ways to prevent this in the very next lesson.

Okay...so far this is pretty straightforward, use good passwords, and use different
passwords. But how can you create several different passwords that are good,
without losing track of them? Great question!

The first option is to write them down on a *(hold paper)* piece of paper. If you’re
going this route, NEVER write the password as is. Use things to help you
remember, something cryptic. Instead of writing gaming123 (which is your
password), write timekiller +123, This way anyone who finds your list of passwords
will have to do a lot of deciphering to figure them out.

The second option (which is what I’d recommend) is using a password manager.
Lots of people are aware of cloud-based password managers that sync your
generated passwords instantly across your devices, like LastPass, 1Password,
Dashlane and all of these other services. The way these work is you have an
account that can be accessed using a master password, giving you access to all
of your passwords inside. If you haven’t already picked up how important that
master password is, I’m going to be Gandalf and tell you… (RECORD “PASSWORD”),
so pick a strong password. Inside of this vault, all of the passwords for every
service you use can be randomly generated by the service so you can use
extremely secure passwords and not have to memorize them. This is awesome on
paper. *(Pun Intended, Hold up Paper with Passwords on it)*

However, these cloud-based password managers typically have three problems:

1) They are cloud-based and stored on the company’s servers, so you don’t own
and control your database file. This is an enormous amount of trust to put in a
company, especially when they are susceptible to attacks, which have
successfully happened in the past.

2) They cost \* hold cash \* money, it’s very rare to find a good option which is both
unlimited and free.

3) Most of these services use proprietary software, meaning they are closed
source, so nobody except the company can view the code and check it for bugs
or backdoors. We want FOSS as previously discussed in section 1 of the course.

But, there are password managers that don’t suffer these problems. The first one
I would suggest is KeePass, an open source password manager where you
physically own an encrypted file with your passwords; the only way to access the
passwords is by loading the file into a Keepass client. Since the file is encrypted,
you can actually sync it using a cloud service like Google Drive, Dropbox,
Nextcloud, or whatever you want to use; I made a guide on how to do this. Even if
someone got access to your cloud storage, they still wouldn’t be able to load your
passwords because it’s an encrypted file. This is technically less secure than
storing it entirely locally, but I would argue this is safer than using a cloud-based
password manager.

There is a step-up from KeePass, and it’s called Master Password. Master
Password doesn’t do any syncing, backups, and doesn’t require internet to
function, similar to Keepass. The difference is Master Password uses
algorithmically generated passwords from the username you pick, along with a
password and title you give the entry. This means you can access the information
anywhere, assuming you remember exactly the correct information. I do
personally feel more comfortable with something like Keepass, where I control a
physical file, but Master Password is undoubtedly more secure, and quite
honestly an ingenious idea, although more complex.

Now, there is one major downside to password managers: you’re putting all of
your eggs in one basket. If someone gets into your database, they have access to
everything. Here are a couple things you can do to protect yourself and make
your password manager an even stronger solution.

1) Make multiple databases with different passwords for different uses. You
can separate schooling, from entertainment, from your personal life, one
compromise won’t jeopardize everything else.

2) The second thing you can do is to memorize a second password that you
can append at the end of passwords within your vault. Let’s say you
remember the password ‘lemurs.’ You can randomly generate your secure
passwords in the password manager, but when you use it online, you add
‘lemurs’ to the end of the random passwords. This way, even if someone
breaks into your password manager, they still can’t get into the accounts
because they don’t know to add ‘lemurs’ to the end of each password.
I also want to point out the importance of frequently changing your passwords,
since even your secure passwords can be pwned without your knowledge. I would
recommend you reserve a day every given time period to sit down, and update
your passwords. This ties in with doing consistent audits on yourself, a topic we
will discuss in section 4 of the course.

Alright, now you know how to create strong passwords and manage them
properly. Sadly, only 12% of Americans in 2016 used a password manager, so
please spread how and why your friends and family should use them. Now,what
happens when you don’t need a traditional password, maybe a device uses
fingerprints, patterns or other biometrics. What should you do?
Biometrics, at least today, are almost always less secure than a password, since
biometric technology isn’t advanced enough to fully verify if somebody is who
they say they are. Apple’s touch ID has been cracked, FaceID has been cracked,
most biometric methods on Android have been cracked, and most other forms of
identification like voice authentication just aren’t advanced enough. Additionally,
Police in Florida recently tried to get access to a person’s dead body to unlock
the person’s cell phone with a fingerprint. Police in Michigan 3D-printed a murder
victim’s fingerprint to gain access to a device, and someone you know could
easily unlock your phone while you’re asleep. Face ID means someone just holds a
device to your face, I mean seriously?
Let’s not forget that biometrics can be very invasive privacy-wise. On top of all of
this, there are legal differences between biometric passwords and physical
passwords.

In the US, courts have ruled that a passcode is classified as “knowledge”. Because
of the Fifth Amendment, there are constitutional protections against being
forced to surrender your passcode to law enforcement But, biometrics are not
classified as “knowledge”, therefore you can be forced to legally unlock your
devices. This is the US though, and different countries have different laws. For
example, in Canada, if you are a citizen, you must hand over your passwords as
part of the law. For more information on these laws in other countries, the
Privacytools.io website has a great list.
No matter what, I’d recommend disabling all biometric passwords when going to
airports, crossing the border, attending protests, or any other situation with lots
of law enforcement, since these are major areas where people are unfairly
searched. If you use biometrics on a mobile device, you can leave it enabled and
simply reboot your device before going to a high risk or high guarded area, since
a reboot will require a password. Alternatively, Apple recently introduced a
feature in iOS 11 where if you click your power button 5 times, it will automatically
lock you out of your phone and require a password to unlock it. This was created
for the exact scenario we’re discussing.

Another form of verification is ALP, or Android lock patterns. In short, avoid these.
At the passwords-con conference in 2015, researchers reported that people often
used the first letter of their first name, and that people tended to use the dots in
the middle and not in the 4 corners. On top of this, security researchers at the US
Naval Academy and the University of Maryland Baltimore County published a
study showing an observer can visually pick up and then reproduce an Android
unlock pattern with relative ease. About two of every three observers successfully
recreated a pattern from five or six feet away after a single viewing.
Okay...that was all a ton of information, and I hope you kept up, but there are a
few more things that you should know before we finish this lesson, let’s quickly go
through them.

First, use a password. This seems like a no-brainer, yet consumer reports found
that over one third of Americans don’t have protection on their mobile devices.
Second, don’t remember passwords inside your browser or allow your browser to
manage them. If anyone gets into your system, your browser won’t ask for any
additional verification to use those passwords, which is a security concern.
Third, never leave your system unlocked for any reason, even for a minute. When
you walk away from your computer--sign out. On Windows and most Linux
distros, just click Windows Key + L, it’s that simple.

The very last topic is security questions. These are those questions you get when
signing up for a website to verify who you are. We have been taught since we were
small children to always be honest. The problem in being honest with security
questions is lots of them are ridiculously easy to guess, even for a random
stranger. Luckily, there’s a simple solution to this: we’re going to lie, by not just
putting fake information, random information. You know that password manager
I told you to start using? You should create a password for every security
question, so that no one can guess them, and there’s no personal information
being given. Save it in your password manager, and that’s where you go if you
ever need to access the answer to your security question.

That is going to wrap up what you need to know about passwords. It is a very
simple topic, but can really expand when you start getting into the nitty gritty. In
the next lesson, we will talk about two factor authentication, which I would argue
is just as important as having a strong password, so make sure to watch that as
well. I’ll see you there and thank you for watching.
