# Cryptocurrencies...True Anonymity?\* show coin with BTC taped on it \* Bitcoin! So mysterious to so many people, andso many misconceptions regarding the technology behind it and its capabilities.Is Bitcoin anonymous? Is it a fad? And most importantly...when moon?Well with Bitconnect, you can earn 1000% of your investment in as little as 14 days,“what am I gunna do?!” (Play carlos) Here’s a promo…[Promotional Spot]Bitcoin is a cryptocurrency, or digital currency, like donuts in Simpsons TappedOut, Gold in Candy Crush Saga, or Vbucks in Fortnight. There are two keydifferences though. First, Bitcoin is intended to be used as a common-daycurrency used to purchase common items, replacing modern-day currencies. Thesecond difference is blockchain technology, where every transaction is fullypublic and verifiable. This means you can view every transaction taking place onthe Bitcoin blockchain. A blockchain is resistant to modification of any data,making them secure by design. They’re also decentralized, meaning no oneperson controls the blockchain, giving power to users, and allowing them tocontrol and send their funds worldwide with no third parties. There are otherbenefits...- The invention of the blockchain for Bitcoin made it the first digital currencyto solve the double-spending problem without the need of a trustedauthority or central server.- There are no banks or other third parties that control how you store andsend money, you take full ownership.- And it’s a worldwide currency, which could rid the need for conversions andglobalize currency.So that is Bitcoin, A) It wasn’t created to be anonymous B) It wasn’t created forillegal activities C) It wasn’t created as a scam D) And it wasn’t created as aninvestment opportunity.Now you might be asking: why is it used for illegal activities, if it’s not anonymous?Let me answer that…1) Bitcoin is being replaced by Monero for illegal activities, and I’ll expand onthat in a sec.2) Bitcoin is not anonymous, but there are ways to make it very difficult totrack where it came from. For example, you can buy Bitcoin with cashin-person using an ATM, and send it to a new wallet, which isn’t tied to anyprevious transactions--giving you decent anonymity. I say decent becausethese ATMs typically have cameras built into them, the malls and storeswith ATMs have cameras, and your drive to these stores will face manychallenges, like phone-based tracking, license plate monitoring, and othertechniques which we’ll discuss in section 5 and 6. A better method is buyingBitcoins locally with cash using a site like LocalBitcoins; I like to call themcryptocraigslist.3) Another method of making Bitcoin relatively anonymous is by using amixer, essentially a laundering service. There are several options butcoinmixer.se seems decent, and bitblender.io seems better since it requiresTor to use. The way these work is you send your Bitcoin into the service,along with many other people, and the service scrambles where the Bitcoincame from and its destination. Laundering is legal as long as you’re notusing it to hide illegal activities. You also have to remember the wallet youuse to send the BTC should have no information tied to you, as well as thedestination wallet.4) Another method of getting Bitcoin anonymously is by mining it yourself.Mining will require a GPU or miner, using something like Nicehash. I made atutorial on mining and how to get started on my channel.So it’s a bummer Bitcoin isn’t inherently anonymous. Luckily, there are othercryptocurrencies that promise near anonymity by default. Monero is the mainone, which utilizes a private blockchain. This way it’s impossible to viewtransactions on the blockchain. On top of that, your wallet address, which is howyou identify your wallet, is never used in the transaction. There are two ghostaddresses used to avoid exposing the real addresses. Monero implements all ofthis by default, which is great since it eliminates the possibility of human error.Another project is ZCash.Before going out and buying cryptocurrencies, remember to secure them. Thisspace is very new, there are lots of scams out there, and people are losing theirmoney left and right. Avoid leaving your coins on exchanges, transfer them to awallet where you have control of the private keys. If you want the utmost security,you should go pick up a Ledger Nano or other hardware wallet, which isconsidered the most secure method of storing cryptocurrencies.To recap everything, cryptocurrencies can be used to help anonymize digitalpurchases. With Bitcoin, it’s difficult and you’ll have to jump some hoops becauseit’s not inherently private. Other technologies like Monero and ZCash offer moreprivate ways of sending money, which are much better than Bitcoin. Remember,as always--do not put full faith in the technology. Create these accounts andsend transactions assuming they will be compromised, so even if they arecompromised your personal data is still safe.[Queue Outro Promos]I hope that cleared up some cryptocurrency misconceptions. It is very cool towitness where this technology will go, and only time will tell if cryptocurrenciesreally will take off. The use-case is definitely there. Thanks for watching, and I’llsee you in the next lesson: Auditing.